create argo-workflows guide (#5693)
dagger/dagger: docs/current/guides/324301-argo-workflows.md

---
slug: /324301/argo-workflows
displayed_sidebar: "current"
category: "guides"

> tags: ["python", "go", "nodejs", "argo", "kubernetes"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tags: ["argo", "kubernetes"]
```

authors: ["Kyle Penfound"]
date: "2023-08-22"
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Use Dagger with Argo Workflows

## Introduction

> This guide explains how to run Dagger pipelines in Argo Workflows. According to their [site](https://argoproj.github.io/argo-workflows/), Argo Workflows is an open source container-native workflow engine for orchestrating parallel jobs on Kubernetes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Argo Workflows](https://argoproj.github.io/argo-workflows/) is an open source container-native workflow engine for orchestrating parallel jobs on Kubernetes. This guide explains how to run Dagger pipelines in Argo Workflows. 
```

> 

Reviewer: ## Requirements

This guide assumes that you have a basic understanding of Kubernetes and Argo Workflows.

Reviewer: Are there are prerequisites? If yes we should add them here following the format in https://github.com/dagger/dagger/blob/main/docs/current/guides/183109-aws-codebuild-codepipeline.md?plain=1#L23C1-L34C1

Author: No prerequisites. And personally I think stating that you need understanding of kubernetes and argo workflows for an argo guide isn't worth noting

Reviewer: I added this section primarily to have consistency with other guides.

Author: ok, added

> ## Configuring Kubernetes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 1: Create a Kubernetes cluster
```

> ## Configuring Kubernetes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::note
This guide assumes a [kind](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/) Kubernetes cluster with Argo Workflows running on it. Step 1 describes how to set up a kind cluster and Step 2 describes how to install Argo Workflows on it. If you already have one or both of these, skip ahead to the next section.
:::

## Step 1: Configure a Kubernetes cluster with kind
```

> In this guide, Argo Workflows will be running on a [kind](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/) cluster. If you already have a kubernetes cluster to use, skip ahead to the next section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Install kind following the [kind quickstart guide](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/docs/user/quick-start/). If you use brew, that looks like `brew install kind`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Install kind following the [kind quickstart guide](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/docs/user/quick-start/). 
```

Reviewer: I don't think we need to provide specific instructions here if we are linking to the quickstart.

> Next, create a configuration to use to initiate the kind cluster. Here's an example configuration to use:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, create a configuration to initiate the kind cluster. Here's an example configuration to use:
```

`~/.kube/kind-config.yaml`

```yaml
# 2 node (one masters & one worker) cluster config
kind: Cluster
apiVersion: kind.x-k8s.io/v1alpha4
nodes:
- role: control-plane
- role: worker
  extraPortMappings:
  - containerPort: 80
    hostPort: 80
    listenAddress: "0.0.0.0"
  - containerPort: 443
    hostPort: 443
    listenAddress: "0.0.0.0"
```

> Now that you have a configuration file for kind, you can initiate the cluster:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Initiate the cluster:
```

`kind create cluster --name argo --config ~/.kube/kind-config.yaml`

> ## Install Argo Workflows

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 2: Install Argo Workflows
```

> Next up you need to install [Argo Workflows](https://argoproj.github.io/argo-workflows/) in the Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next step is to install [Argo Workflows](https://argoproj.github.io/argo-workflows/) in the Kubernetes cluster.
```

> This guide will follow the [quickstart](https://github.com/argoproj/argo-workflows/blob/master/docs/quick-start.md) installation, however your own deployment may have different requirements. Once you've successfully installed argo workflows to your cluster, continue to the next step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the [Argo Workflows quickstart](https://github.com/argoproj/argo-workflows/blob/master/docs/quick-start.md) steps, adjusting them as needed to your own requirements. Once you've successfully installed Argo Workflows to your cluster, continue to the next step.
```

> ## Configure the Dagger Daemonset

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 3: Configure the Dagger Daemonset
```

> Next, you need a Dagger Engine running as a Daemonset in your Kubernetes cluster. There are many benefits to running the engine as a Daemonset, but most importantly it means an engine will always be available when you need it and it will be able to persist cache between pipeline executions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next step is to configure a Dagger Engine running as a Daemonset in your Kubernetes cluster. There are many benefits to running the Dagger Engine as a Daemonset, but the most important one is that a Dagger Engine will always be available when you need it and that it will be able to persist cache between pipeline executions.
```

:::danger

> This daemonset configuration is unofficial and should be modified to fit your use case

Reviewer: I'm not sure about this statement. It's a bit weird to have this statement in an official guide in our docs. Should we instead have it validated by others in the team and then remove this warning? We have another daemonset configuration in a different guide created by @marcosnils and @jlongtine , maybe they would be able to review this and provide feedback.

Author: I think when the other guide is merged, we can point to that guide instead of including the daemonset here

:::

Create a file called `daemonset.yaml` with the following content:

```yaml file=./snippets/argo-workflows/daemonset.yaml
```

- `registry.dagger.io/engine:{VERSION}` is specified twice. Ensure it has the appropriate version for your use case.
- `buildkit-v0.12.1.linux-amd64.tar.gz` is downloaded to use for the readinessProbe. If you're running on arm64, be sure to change this to `buildkit-v0.12.1.linux-arm64.tar.gz`.
- `/var/run/buildkit` is configured as a volume mount. This is how the workflow pods communicate with the engine.

When you're satisfied with the configuration, apply the daemonset

`kubectl apply -f ./daemonset.yaml`

> ## Run a sample workflow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 4: Run a sample workflow
```

The sample workflow will clone and run the CI for the [greetings-api](https://github.com/kpenfound/greetings-api) demo project. This project uses the Dagger Go SDK for CI.

Create a file called `workflow.yaml` with the following content:

```yaml file=./snippets/argo-workflows/workflow.yaml
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A few important points to note:
```

> - The workflow uses hardwired artifacts to clone the git repository and to install the Dagger CLI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The workflow uses hardwired artifacts to clone the Git repository and to install the Dagger CLI.
```

> - `/var/run/buildkit` is mounted and specified with the `_EXPERIMENTAL_DAGGER_RUNNER_HOST` environment variable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `/var/run/buildkit` is mounted and specified with the `_EXPERIMENTAL_DAGGER_RUNNER_HOST` environment variable.
```

> - The Dagger CLI `dagger_v0.8.4_linux_amd64.tar.gz` is downloaded and installed. Confirm the version and architecture are accurate for your cluster and project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The Dagger CLI `dagger_v0.8.4_linux_amd64.tar.gz` is downloaded and installed. Confirm the version and architecture are accurate for your cluster and project.
```

> - The image `golang:1.21.0-bookworm` is used as the runtime for the container because the example project requires Go

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The image `golang:1.21.0-bookworm` is used as the runtime for the container because the example project requires Go.
```

> - The environment variable `_EXPERIMENTAL_DAGGER_CLOUD_TOKEN` is set from the kubernetes secret `dagger-cloud.token`. If you have a dagger cloud token, set this as a secret with `kubectl create secret generic dagger-cloud --from-literal=token={YOUR_TOKEN}`. If not, remove this variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The environment variable `_EXPERIMENTAL_DAGGER_CLOUD_TOKEN` is set from the Kubernetes secret `dagger-cloud.token`. If you have a Dagger Cloud token, set this as a secret with `kubectl create secret generic dagger-cloud --from-literal=token={YOUR_TOKEN}`. If not, remove this variable.
```

> The workflow uses a persistentVolumeClaim for the runtime dependencies of the pipeline. Even though the dependencies within the pipeline are cached through Dagger, we still have dependencies to run the pipeline. Create the persistentVolumeClaim configuration in a file called gomodcache.yaml:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The workflow uses a PersistentVolumeClaim for the runtime dependencies of the pipeline. Even though the dependencies within the pipeline are cached through Dagger, we still have dependencies to run the pipeline. 

Create the PersistentVolumeClaim configuration in a file called `gomodcache.yaml`:
```

```yaml file=./snippets/argo-workflows/gomodcache.yaml
```

> and apply the persistentVolumeClaim:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Apply the configuration:
```

 `kubectl apply -f ./gomodcache.yaml`

> When you're satisfied with the workflow configuration, run it with argo

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you're satisfied with the workflow configuration, run it with Argo:
```

`argo submit -n argo --watch ./workflow.yaml`

> With `--watch` you'll see the status of the workflow request in Argo. If you want to see the logs from your workflow, note the pod name and in another terminal run `kubectl logs -f {POD_NAME}`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With `--watch` you'll see the status of the workflow request in Argo. If you want to see the logs from your workflow, note the pod name and in another terminal run `kubectl logs -f {POD_NAME}`
```
```suggestion
The `--watch` argument provides an ongoing status feed of the workflow request in Argo. To see the logs from your workflow, note the pod name and in another terminal run `kubectl logs -f POD_NAME`
```

> Once the workflow has successfully completed, run it again with `argo submit -n argo --watch ./workflow.yaml` and notice the caching this time!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the workflow has successfully completed, run it again with `argo submit -n argo --watch ./workflow.yaml` and notice the caching this time!
```
```suggestion
Once the workflow has successfully completed, run it again with `argo submit -n argo --watch ./workflow.yaml`. Dagger's caching should result in a significantly faster second execution.
```

Reviewer: Not sure if you missed this one?

> ## Closing thoughts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Conclusion
```

> This example demonstrated a very basic way to run Dagger with Argo Workflows. In real world environments, Argo Workflows is often coupled with ArgoCD and Argo Events to create a fully featured CI/CD platform. Read more about that [here](https://medium.com/atlantbh/implementing-ci-cd-pipeline-using-argo-workflows-and-argo-events-6417dd157566).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example demonstrated how to integrate Dagger with Argo Workflows. Use the [API Key Concepts](../api/975146-concepts.mdx) page and the [Go](https://pkg.go.dev/dagger.io/dagger), [Node.js](../sdk/nodejs/reference/modules.md) and [Python](https://dagger-io.readthedocs.org/) SDK References to learn more about Dagger. 

For more information on Argo Workflows, refer to the [official documentation](https://argoproj.github.io/argo-workflows/#documentation) or to third-party tutorials such as this [guide on implementing CI/CD pipeline using Argo Workflows and Argo Events](https://medium.com/atlantbh/implementing-ci-cd-pipeline-using-argo-workflows-and-argo-events-6417dd157566).
```

Author: I think this says something slightly different than what I was trying to say. The point is that the argo-workflows deployment in the guide isn't a very realistic setup, and in real environments argo-workflows will be paired with argocd and argo-events

Reviewer: Thanks for clarifying. I've modified my suggestion, see if better?

---
slug: /324301/argo-workflows
displayed_sidebar: "current"
category: "guides"
tags: ["argo", "kubernetes"]
authors: ["Kyle Penfound"]
date: "2023-08-22"
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Use Dagger with Argo Workflows

## Introduction

[Argo Workflows](https://argoproj.github.io/argo-workflows/) is an open source container-native workflow engine for orchestrating parallel jobs on Kubernetes. This guide explains how to run Dagger pipelines in Argo Workflows.

## Requirements

This guide assumes that you have a basic understanding of Kubernetes and Argo Workflows, and that your Kubernetes cluster has been configured following the [Run Dagger on Kubernetes](https://docs.dagger.io/194031/kubernetes) guide.

## Step 1: Install Argo Workflows

The first step is to install [Argo Workflows](https://argoproj.github.io/argo-workflows/) in the Kubernetes cluster.

> Follow the [Argo Workflows quickstart](https://github.com/argoproj/argo-workflows/blob/master/docs/quick-start.md) steps, adjusting them as needed to your own requirements. Once you've successfully installed Argo Workflows to your cluster, continue to the next step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the [Argo Workflows quickstart](https://github.com/argoproj/argo-workflows/blob/master/docs/quick-start.md) steps, adjusting them as needed to your own requirements. Once you've successfully installed Argo Workflows in your cluster, continue to the next step.
```

`in`? `on`?

> Follow the [Argo Workflows quickstart](https://github.com/argoproj/argo-workflows/blob/master/docs/quick-start.md) steps, adjusting them as needed to your own requirements. Once you've successfully installed Argo Workflows in your cluster, continue to the next step.

Reviewer 2: Since we are using the `argo` CLI further below, we should explicitly require this to be installed too.

Author: If you think it's necessary, sure. In the guide we instruct them to follow it has a step for installing the `argo` CLI https://github.com/argoproj/argo-workflows/blob/master/docs/quick-start.md#install-the-argo-workflows-cli

Reviewer 2: I've spotted it now, all good!

> ## Step 2: Run A Sample Workflow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 2: Run a sample workflow
```

The sample workflow will clone and run the CI for the [greetings-api](https://github.com/kpenfound/greetings-api) demo project. This project uses the Dagger Go SDK for CI.

Create a file called `workflow.yaml` with the following content:

```yaml file=./snippets/argo-workflows/workflow.yaml
```

A few important points to note:

- The workflow uses hardwired artifacts to clone the Git repository and to install the Dagger CLI.

> - `/var/run/buildkit` is mounted and specified with the `_EXPERIMENTAL_DAGGER_RUNNER_HOST` environment variable.

Reviewer: We also specify this variable in the Kubernetes setup. Is there a link between the two?

Author: Yes, the values set in the runner configuration for ARC in the k8s guide are the same as we set for argo here

Author: Updated the naming to be consistent with the k8s guide

> - `unix:///var/run/dagger/buildkitd.sock` is mounted and specified with the `_EXPERIMENTAL_DAGGER_RUNNER_HOST` environment variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `unix:///var/run/dagger/buildkitd.sock` is mounted and specified with the `_EXPERIMENTAL_DAGGER_RUNNER_HOST` environment variable. This is the same mount point used by the CI runners, and it points to the Dagger Engine DaemonSet socket. This ensures that the runners will use the local Dagger Engine for pipeline execution.
```

> - `unix:///var/run/dagger/buildkitd.sock` is mounted and specified with the `_EXPERIMENTAL_DAGGER_RUNNER_HOST` environment variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `unix:///var/run/dagger/buildkitd.sock` is mounted and specified with the `_EXPERIMENTAL_DAGGER_RUNNER_HOST` environment variable. This is the same mount point used by the CI runners, and it points to the Dagger Engine DaemonSet socket. This ensures that the runners will use the local Dagger Engine for pipeline execution.
```

Author: > This is the same mount point used by the CI runners

In this case, this _is_ the CI runner, so I don't think this makes sense to add

- The Dagger CLI `dagger_v0.8.7_linux_amd64.tar.gz` is downloaded and installed. Confirm the version and architecture are accurate for your cluster and project.
- The image `golang:1.21.0-bookworm` is used as the runtime for the container because the example project requires Go.

> The workflow uses a PersistentVolumeClaim for the runtime dependencies of the pipeline. Even though the dependencies within the pipeline are cached through Dagger, we still have dependencies to run the pipeline.

Author: Pipeline dependencies here means that since my pipeline is written in Go, and that Go code has go mod dependencies. To improve performance, we should cache those, but that happens outside of Dagger. This won't be a factor when Zenith is released because those pipeline dependencies will be cached in Dagger as well. What do you think?

> The workflow uses a PersistentVolumeClaim for the runtime dependencies of the pipeline. Even though the dependencies within the pipeline are cached through Dagger, we still have dependencies to run the pipeline.

Reviewer: Added suggestion

> The workflow uses a PersistentVolumeClaim for the runtime dependencies of the pipeline. Even though the dependencies within the pipeline are cached through Dagger, we still have dependencies to run the pipeline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The workflow uses a PersistentVolumeClaim for the runtime dependencies of the pipeline.
```

Author: Why?

Reviewer: It reads clearer to me without the second sentence, but I concede this will be subjective.

Reviewer: See if my edit is better?

Author: Pushed a change!

Create the PersistentVolumeClaim configuration in a file called `gomodcache.yaml`:

```yaml file=./snippets/argo-workflows/gomodcache.yaml
```

Apply the configuration:

 `kubectl apply -n argo -f ./gomodcache.yaml`

When you're satisfied with the workflow configuration, run it with Argo:

`argo submit -n argo --watch ./workflow.yaml`

> The `--watch` argument provides an ongoing status feed of the workflow request in Argo. To see the logs from your workflow, note the pod name and in another terminal run `kubectl logs -f POD_NAME`

Author: I'm not sure if it's worth mentioning here. In this context, they're already in the terminal, and the point is really to see "hey look it ran" vs "let me analyze this run".

> The `--watch` argument provides an ongoing status feed of the workflow request in Argo. To see the logs from your workflow, note the pod name and in another terminal run `kubectl logs -f POD_NAME`

Reviewer 2: <img width="666" alt="image" src="https://github.com/dagger/dagger/assets/3342/9f24bc9e-acaf-4cbf-b905-1d6aa130f6c3">
